v6.5.9: add release notes (#17007)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.5.9.md

Author: preview: https://pingcap-docsite-preview-git-pr-qiancais-projects.vercel.app/tidb/dev/release-6.5.9

---
title: TiDB 6.5.9 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 6.5.9.
---

# TiDB 6.5.9 Release Notes

Release date: April xx, 2024

TiDB version: 6.5.9

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.5.9#version-list)

## Compatibility changes <!--tw@qiancai 2 条-->

> - Add a TiKV configuration item [`track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/tikv-configuration-file#track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest-new-in-v659) for RocksDB, which helps you investigate possible corruption of Write Ahead Log (WAL) [#16549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16549) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a TiKV configuration item [`track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/tikv-configuration-file#track-and-verify-wals-in-manifest-new-in-v659-and-v800) for RocksDB, which helps you investigate possible corruption of Write Ahead Log (WAL) [#16549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16549) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
```

> - DR Auto-Sync support configuring [`wait-recover-timeout`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/two-data-centers-in-one-city-deployment#enable-the-dr-auto-sync-mode), which enables you to control the waiting time for switching back to the `sync-recover` status after the network recovers [#6295](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6295) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DR Auto-Sync supports configuring [`wait-recover-timeout`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/two-data-centers-in-one-city-deployment#enable-the-dr-auto-sync-mode), which enables you to control the waiting time for switching back to the `sync-recover` status after the network recovers [#6295](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6295) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
```

        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Support ingesting SST files in batch during data restore [#16267](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16267) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-7.1.4.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Remove an outdated compatibility check when using Google Cloud Storage (GCS) as the external storage [#50533](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50533) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Print the information of the slowest Region that affects global checkpoint advancement in logs and metrics during log backups [#51046](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51046) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Improvements> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Refactor the BR exception handling mechanism to increase tolerance for unknown errors [#47656](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47656) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB <!--tw@qiancai 以下 6 条-->

>     - Fix the issue that after a large number of tables are created, the newly created tables might lack the `stats_meta` information, causing subsequent query estimation to fail to get accurate row count information  [#36004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36004) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that after a large number of tables are created, the newly created tables might lack the `stats_meta` information, causing subsequent query estimation to fail to get accurate row count information [#36004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36004) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)
```

    - Fix the issue that dropped tables are still counted by the Grafana `Stats Healthy Distribution` panel [#39349](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39349) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB does not handle the `WHERE column_name` filtering condition in a SQL statement when the query of that statement involves the `MemTableScan` operator [#40937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40937) @[zhongzc](https://github.com/zhongzc)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB does not handle the `WHERE <column_name>` filtering condition in a SQL statement when the query of that statement involves the `MemTableScan` operator [#40937](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/40937) @[zhongzc](https://github.com/zhongzc)
```

    - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that `ALTER TABLE ... COMPACT TIFLASH REPLICA` might incorrectly end when the primary key type is `VARCHAR` [#51810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51810) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)
    - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that the `tidb_gogc_tuner_threshold` system variable is not adjusted accordingly after the `tidb_server_memory_limit` variable is modified [#48180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48180) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the `Can't find column ...` error that might occur when aggregate functions are used for group calculations [#50926](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50926) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!--tw@hfxsd 以下 8 条-->
    - Fix the issue that the `REVERSE` function reports an error when processing columns of the `BIT` type [#50850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50850) [#50855](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50855) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)

>     - Fix the issue that `INSERT IGNORE` reports an error when inserting data in bulk into a table that has a DDL being executed [#50993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50993) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `INSERT IGNORE` reports an error when inserting data in bulk into a table undergoing a DDL operation [#50993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50993) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - Fix the issue that the TiDB server adds a label via the HTTP interface and returns success, but does not take effect [#51427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51427) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Fix the issue that the type returned by the `IFNULL` function is inconsistent with MySQL [#51765](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51765) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the TiDB server is marked as health before the initialization is complete [#51596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51596) @[shenqidebaozi](https://github.com/shenqidebaozi)

>     - Fix the issue that when querying the `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS` table, it returns an in-memory table [#50810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50810) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that querying the `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS` table might incorrectly return `INFORMATION_SCHEMA` tables [#50810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50810) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

    - Fix the issue that `EXCHANGE PARTITION` incorrectly processes foreign keys [#51807](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51807) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     - Fix the issue that executing CTE functions causes TiDB to panic [#41688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41688) @[srstack](https://github.com/srstack)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that executing queries containing CTEs causes TiDB to panic [#41688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41688) @[srstack](https://github.com/srstack)```

    - Fix the issue that the PD monitoring item `learner-peer-count` does not synchronize the old value after a leader switch [#7728](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7728) @[CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
    - Fix the issue that the query result of `SHOW CONFIG` includes the deprecated configuration item `trace-region-flow` [#7917](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7917) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic due to unstable network connections with PD during replica migration [#8323](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8323) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might crash due to data race in case of remote reads [#8685](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8685) @[solotzg](https://github.com/solotzg)
    - Fix the issue that the `ENUM` column might cause TiFlash to crash during chunk encoding [#8674](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8674) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when you query columns with invalid default values in non-strict `sql_mode` [#8803](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8803) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer 3: It should be "... when you create columns ..."

>     - Fix the issue that when GC resolves locks on an optimistic transaction, there is a small chance that the atomicity of the transaction might be broken if the data on the transaction's primary key has been committed in Async Commit or 1PC mode [#16620](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16620) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that during the execution of an optimistic transaction, if other transactions initiate the resolving lock operation, there is a small chance that the atomicity of the transaction might be broken if the transaction's primary key has data that was previously committed in Async Commit or 1PC mode [#16620](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16620) @[MyonKeminta](https://github.com/MyonKeminta)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when creating a column with abnormal default values under non-strict sql_mode [#8803](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8803) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when you query columns with invalid default values in non-strict `sql_mode` [#8803](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8803) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

        - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue TiCDC panics when scheduling table replication tasks [#10613](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10613) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that data race in the KV client causes TiCDC to panic [#10718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10718) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that the file sequence number generated by the storage service might not increment correctly when using the storage sink [#10352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10352) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC cannot access Azure and GCS properly in storage sink scenarios [#10592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10592) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>         - Fix the issue that the old value part of `open-protocol` incorrectly outputs the default value according to the `STRING` type instead of the true type [#10803](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10803) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
>         - Fix the issue that a changefeed with eventual consistency enabled might fail when the object store encounters a temporary failure [#10710](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10710) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the old value part of `open-protocol` incorrectly outputs the default value according to the `STRING` type instead of its actual type [#10803](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10803) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that a changefeed with eventual consistency enabled might fail when the object storage sink encounters a temporary failure [#10710](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10710) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.5.9 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 6.5.9.
---

# TiDB 6.5.9 Release Notes

> Release date: February 2, 2024

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: April xx, 2024
```

TiDB version: 6.5.9

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v6.5.9#version-list)

## Compatibility changes

- note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/${repo-name}/issues/${issue-id}) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@hfxsd 1 条-->

    - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Improvements> TiDB - When `force-init-stats` is set to `true`, TiDB waits for statistics initialization to finish before providing services during TiDB startup. This setting no longer blocks the startup of HTTP servers, which enables users to continue monitoring [#50854](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50854) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - 优化了 Analyze 语句卡住 Metadata Lock 的问题 [#47475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47475) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the issue that the `ANALYZE` statement blocks the metadata lock [#47475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47475) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the goroutine leak issue that occurs when the memory usage of CTE queries exceed limits [#50337](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50337) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
    - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that TiDB does not listen to the corresponding port when `force-init-stats` is configured [#51473](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51473) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that `ALTER TABLE ... COMPACT TIFLASH REPLICA` might incorrectly end when the primary key type is `VARCHAR` [#51810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51810) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)
    - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the issue that the `tidb_gogc_tuner_threshold` system variable is not adjusted accordingly after the `tidb_server_memory_limit` variable is modified [#48180](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48180) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the `Can't find column ...` error that might occur when aggregate functions are used for group calculations [#50926](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50926) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

Author: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the `Can't find column ...` error that might occur when aggregate functions are used for group calculations [#50926](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50926) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) <!--tw@hfxsd 以下 8 条-->
```

>     - 修复 `reverse` 函数在处理 `bit` 类型列时报错的问题 [#50850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50850), [#50855](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50855) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
>     - 修复 `insert ignore` 向正在执行 ddl 的表中批量插入时报错的问题 [#50993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50993) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复 TiDB Server 通过 HTTP 接口添加 label 返回成功但不生效的问题 [#51427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51427) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
>     - 修复 `ifnull` 函数返回的类型和 MySQL 不一致的问题 [#51765](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51765) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复 TiDB Server 在初始化完成之前就标记为 Health 的问题 [#51596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51596) @[shenqidebaozi](https://github.com/shenqidebaozi)
>     - 修复查询 `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS` 表结果会返回内存表的问题 [#50810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50810) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>     - 修复 `exchange partition` 在处理外键时判断错误的问题 [#51807](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51807) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>     - 修复执行 CTE 函数会 panic 的问题 [#41688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41688) @[srstack](https://github.com/srstack)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `REVERSE` function reports an error when processing columns of the `BIT` type [#50850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50850) [#50855](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50855) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - Fix the issue that `INSERT IGNORE` reports an error when inserting data in bulk into a table that has a DDL being executed [#50993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50993) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the TiDB server adds a label via the HTTP interface and returns success, but does not take effect [#51427](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51427) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Fix the issue that the type returned by the `IFNULL` function is inconsistent with MySQL [#51765](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51765) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that the TiDB server is marked as health before the initialization is complete [#51596](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51596) @[shenqidebaozi](https://github.com/shenqidebaozi)
    - Fix the issue that when querying the `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS` table, it returns an in-memory table [#50810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50810) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix an issue that `exchange partition` incorrectly processes foreign keys [#51807](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51807) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that executing CTE functions causes TiDB to panic [#41688](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41688) @[srstack](https://github.com/srstack)
```

>     - Fix an issue that `exchange partition` incorrectly processes foreign keys [#51807](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51807) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `EXCHANGE PARTITION` incorrectly processes foreign keys [#51807](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51807) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that the Syncpoint table might be incorrectly replicated [#10576](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10576) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue TiCDC panics when scheduling table replication tasks [#10613](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10613) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that data race in the KV client causes TiCDC to panic [#10718](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10718) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - (dup): release-7.5.1.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiCDC - Fix the issue that the file sequence number generated by the storage service might not increment correctly when using the storage sink [#10352](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10352) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

>         - 修复 storage sink 场景下无法正常访问 azure 和 gcs 对象存储的问题 [#10592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10592) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
>         - 修复 open-protocol 的 old value 部分错误的按照 string 类型而非真正类型输出默认值的问题 [#10803](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10803)，@[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
>         - 修复了当对象存储遇到暂时故障时，启用了最终一致性功能的 changefeed 可能直接失败的问题，[#10710](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10710) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC cannot access Azure and GCS properly in storage sink scenarios [#10592](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10592) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the old value part of `open-protocol` incorrectly outputs the default value according to the `STRING` type instead of the true type [#10803](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10803) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that a changefeed with eventual consistency enabled might fail when the object store encounters a temporary failure [#10710](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10710) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
```

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Data Migration (DM) - Fix the issue that data is lost when the upstream primary key is of binary type [#10672](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10672) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > 错误修复> Tools> TiDB Lightning - 修复在扫描数据文件时，遇到不合法符号链接文件而报错的问题 [#49423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49423) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Author: ```suggestion
        - (dup): release-8.0.0.md > Bug fixes> Tools> TiDB Lightning - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning reports an error when encountering invalid symbolic link files during file scanning [#49423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49423) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```
